Fault Injection Framework
=========================

Fault is defined as a point of interest in the source code with an
associated action to be taken when that point is hit during execution.
Fault points are defined using SIMPLE_FAULT_INJECTOR() macro.  A fault
point is identifed by a name.  This module provides an interface to
inject a predefined fault point into a running Greenplum cluster by
associating an action with the fault point.  Action can be error,
panic, sleep, skip, infinite_loop, etc.

Basic examples
--------------

   select gp_inject_fault('checkpoint', 'error', dbid) from
   gp_segment_configuration where content=1 and role='p';

The above command causes the next checkpoint to fail with elog(ERROR)
on the segment that is acting as primary and has contentid = 1.  The
'checkpoint' fault is defined in CreateCheckPoint() function in
xlog.c.  Note that the fault is set to trigger only once by default.
Subsequent checkpoints will not be affected by the above fault.

   select gp_inject_fault('checkpoint', 'status', dbid) from
   gp_segment_configuration where content=1 and role='p';

The above command checks the status of the fault.  It reports the
number of times the fault has been hit during execution and whether it
has completed.

   select gp_wait_until_triggered_fault('checkpoint', 1, dbid) from
   gp_segment_configuration where content=1 and role='p';

The above command blocks until the checkpoint fault is triggered
exactly once.

   select gp_inject_fault('checkpoint', 'reset', dbid) from
   gp_segment_configuration where content=1 and role='p';

The above command removes the fault, such that no action will be taken
when the fault point is reached during execution.  A fault can be set
to trigger more than once.  For example:

   select gp_inject_fault_infinite('checkpoint', 'error', dbid) from
   gp_segment_configuration where content=1 and role='p';

This command causes checkpoints to fail until the fault is removed on
the segment 1 primary.

More detailed interface
-----------------------

A more detailed version of the fault injector interface accepts
several more paramters.  For example:

   select gp_inject_fault('heap_insert', 'error',
   	  '' /* DDL */, '' /* database name */,
	  'my_table' /* table name */,
	  1 /* start occurrence */, 10 /* end occurrence */,
	  0 /* */, dbid) from
   gp_segment_configuration where content=1 and role='p';

The above command sets heap_insert fault such that the inserting
transaction will abort wiht elog(ERROR) when the code reaches the
fault point, only if the relation being inserted to has the name
'my_table'.  Moreover, after the fault has been hit 10 times, it will
stop triggering.  The 11th transaction to insert into my_table will
continue the insert as if no fault was injected.

Fault actions
-------------

Fault action is specified as the type parameter in gp_inject_fault()
interface.  The following types are supported.

error
   elog(ERROR)

fatal
   elog(FATAL)

panic
   elog(PANIC)

sleep
   sleep for specified amount of time

infinite_loop
   block until the query is canceled or terminated

suspend
   block until the fault is removed

resume
   resume backend processes that are blocked due to a suspend fault

skip
   do nothing (used to implement custom logic that is not supported by
   predefined actions)

reset
   remove a previously injected fault

segv
   crash the backend process due to SIGSEGV

interrupt
   simulate cancel interrupt arrival, such that the next
   interrupt processing cycle will cancel the query

finish_pending
   similar to interrupt, sets the QueryFinishPending global flag
   
status
   return a text datum with details of how many times a fault has been
   triggered, the state it is currently in.  Fault states are as follows:

      "set" injected but the fault point has not been reached during
      execution yet.

      "tiggered" the fault point has been reached at least once during
      execution.

      "completed" the action associated with the fault point will no
      longer be taken because the fault point has been reached maximum
      number of times during execution.